The President:
This weekend, we're coming
together, as one nation,
to mark the 10th anniversary
of the September 11th attacks.
We're remembering
the lives we lost --
nearly 3,000 innocent
men, women and children.
We're reaffirming our commitment
to always keep faith with
their families.
We're honoring the heroism of
first responders who risked
their lives -- and gave
their lives -- to save others.
And we're giving thanks to
all who serve on our behalf,
especially our troops
and military families --
our extraordinary
9/11 Generation.
At the same time, even as we
reflect on a difficult decade,
we must look forward, to the
future we will build together.
That includes staying strong
and confident in the face of
any threat.
And thanks to the tireless
efforts of our military
personnel and our intelligence,
law enforcement and homeland
security professionals --
there should be no doubt.
Today, America is stronger
and al Qaeda is on the path
to defeat.
We've taken the fight to
al Qaeda like never before.
Over the past two
and a half years,
more senior al Qaeda leaders
have been eliminated than at any
time since 9/11.
And thanks to the remarkable
courage and precision of our
forces, we finally delivered
justice to Osama bin Laden.
We've strengthened the
partnerships and tools we need
to prevail in this
war against al Qaeda --
working closer with
allies and partners;
reforming intelligence to
better detect and disrupt plots;
investing in our Special
Forces so terrorists have no
safe haven.
We're constantly working to
improve the security of our
homeland as well -- at our
airports, ports and borders;
enhancing aviation
security and screening;
increasing support for
our first responders;
and working closer
than ever with states,
cities and communities.
A decade after 9/11, it's clear
for all the world to see --
the terrorists who attacked us
that September morning are no
match for the character
of our people,
the resilience of our nation,
or the endurance of our values.
They wanted to terrorize
us, but, as Americans,
we refuse to live in fear.
Yes we face a determined
foe, and make no mistake --
they will keep trying
to hit us again.
But as we're showing again this
weekend, we remain vigilant.
We're doing everything in our
power to protect our people.
And no matter what comes our
way, as a resilient nation,
we will carry on.
They wanted to draw
us in to endless wars,
sapping our strength and
confidence as a nation.
But even as we put relentless
pressure on al Qaeda,
we're ending the war in Iraq and
beginning to bring our troops
home from Afghanistan.
Because after a
hard decade of war,
it is time for nation
building here at home.
They wanted to deprive us of
the unity that defines us as
a people.
But we will not succumb
to division or suspicion.
We are Americans, and we're
stronger and safer when we stay
true to the values, freedoms and
diversity that makes us unique
among nations.
And they wanted to undermine
our place in the world.
But a decade later, we've shown
that America doesn't hunker down
and hide behind
walls of mistrust.
We've forged new partnerships
with nations around the world to
meet the global challenges
that no nation can face alone.
And across the Middle East and
North Africa a new generation of
citizens is showing that the
future belongs to those that
want to build, not destroy.
Ten years ago, ordinary
Americans showed us the true
meaning of courage when they
rushed up those stairwells,
into those flames,
into that cockpit.
In the decade since, a new
generation has stepped forward
to serve and keep us safe.
In their memory, in their
name, we will never waver.
We will protect the country
we love and pass it safer,
stronger and more prosperous
to the next generation.